OK,
moving on to the next lesson.
Now we have status on the total number of files.
So basically,
we're gonna have a script that will send alert if files are less than 50 or whatever the
defined number of balls.
So this type of scripts are often used incorporating Wyman when an application generates a
few number of files.
And for the developers or Ewan system administrators,
they have to make sure those fall are there before they actually go and run another
workflow.
So if the number of files are 20 go ahead,
run the workflow.
If it's 19 the workplace not complete its waiting pending.
And then once it's complete Nordic parts of these type off workflow our entire process 10
from one to another.
So this is what we cover.
What?
What we will run here is simply we will run Ellis command my cell option because it will
give the listing the different options.
If you want to like ls lt are,
or just tea or any of the option that will give you the entire listing off your directory.
Then we will create a script to perform that comparison and,
of course,
at the end schedule and notify if you have to schedule it through the Cron job and notify
through the email.
So that's a two main ah way to schedule a job and to notify users to the email.
So let's go into our main lab,
the next machine I have already logged in as myself.
I am in home directory.
Let's go to PS,
Derek Tree and I will create the script real quick.
Eso Let's call the script.
Um,
you know what?
Before we call the script,
So let's create far so that he could run that script against those files.
So,
uh,
to create the fall I will create instead of 50.
All create 20.
It's a touch file.
Um,
and of course,
um,
I wanted to have one through 20 and let's call it dot text.
So I want to create files for 1 to 20.
The ends with Texas hit enter and you will see I have files from file one all the way
through to 20 and as the text file.
So my scrip,
what it will do is whenever it runs,
it will verify if he have total number 20 files in my home directory And if it does,
then it will notify the user.
Hey,
I got the 20 files.
Go ahead and start your workflow eso to verified.
You do ls minus.
L command and do file and asterisk.
And you will get all the 20 files.
But now we have to do wc minus.
L to check the count.
Count is 20.
Perfect.
Now let me put that script and little command this one in our script.
It's a small,
tiny script and we will run that script.
So ah,
count files.
This is a name I want to give my scrip,
and you're defining all our parameters up there.
All our settings author,
the date description.
One of the most important one.
This group will,
um,
verify total number fun modified.
By the way,
You could also add any of the comments you want that will actually make you,
um,
understand what descript is for.
You could also give comments on every lime and ever you write some.
So let's say if you are defining a variable,
I'm going to define their variable here.
A cool take ls minus.
L file.
Asteroid W c My cell stick close.
So I have defined variable A.
So I could put a comment here if you want to comment,
defining variable.
Okay,
that's it.
If you want to actually do,
um,
if you want to actually add comments in every line,
so are variable is defined.
So what we'll have to do is if dollar A is equal 2 20 now using e que because usually
integer and you remember when we use equal equal sign,
which is equal equal when we actually using the letters.
If you are putting why or no?
Then if a is equal 20 then echo.
Yes,
there are dollar A files meaning 25 else go miles are less than 20 because now be defining
.
It actually number what we're looking for,
so we cannot are very variable.
See,
that's pretty much it's that simple.
Let's put if here,
so come in life.
So let's give it executed permission count files and let's run it.
It says Yes,
there are 20 files that as perfect.
No.
What do you have to do?
I could show you real quick if,
first of all,
before I show you something else,
let's change it.
Let's delete one part.
So one room or file?
Um 20.
No.
When I run it,
it will tell me Count Falls Files are less than Okay.
So now we know that.
Ah,
the script works.
Here's another quick thing I wanted to show you.
You see,
right here we always defined variable here,
Right?
And variable is a equal.
Whatever the variable is,
What you could also do here is instead of just defining variable,
you could also actually put this entire,
um um command here so you could do,
like,
take.
If this command quit,
it comes out.
It is cual to 20.
Then do that.
And then you don't have to define the various.
You're just common dot Up seafood runs.
Yes.
Bars are less than 20.
If I create back the,
uh,
flow's touch my remote while Juanita txt.
And now when I run it?
Yes,
there are.
Ah,
there are files.
Yes,
there are falls.
Which one is?
Oh,
remember,
we have that variable in there.
That's why it couldn't.
Ah,
right here.
Yes,
there are.
And it doesn't understand what that variable is because we are commented out the variable.
So we could say yes,
there are 20.
Anyway,
my point here is to explain you that you could define variable,
which is the best way and cleanest way to put your script together.
So you would know where to use your very if you do not want to use variable,
you could also put that entire command inside all l state.
So that's how this works.
And once that is completed,
you go also send a message return status to another workflow.
Hey,
the command ran success.